---
title: Selected Listings
author: Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Toronto
date: '1999-02-06'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/329411384/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/2969
article_category: Events Listing
collection: ''
era: contemporary
year: '1999'
production_title: ''
company: ''
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions: []
tags:
- Short Takes
automatic_tags: []
director: []
actors: []
playwright: []
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: unusual_multi_item_listings
publication_status: archive_only
editorial_notes: Selected listings page with multiple event blurbs and mixed authorship;
  not a single review record.
---
THEATRE

The Death of General Wolfe

Benjamin West's painting of General Wolfe's death dominates the stage in this play, written and directed by Brian Quint. One has, I suppose, to give it credit for being intelligent and civilized, these being the code words for plays in which everybody speaks in measured sentences and nobody takes their clothes off, but it could have used a few jokes: basic equipment in a debating play for keeping an audience awake. Robert Cushman

- Runs until Feb. 14 Tue - Sat 8pm; Sun 2:30 pm. $19-$28, except Sun - PWYC. Theatre Passe Muraille, 16 Ryerson Ave. Toronto 416-504- 7529

Good Bones

Clare Coulter provides a formidable solo-performance based on the text of Margaret Atwood's two collections of prose vignettes: Good Bones and Murder in the Dark. It is, all the same, not a very invigorating evening. Coulter has no overarching story to tell, and she never seems to meet anyone, even in her imagination. We are struck throughout with the same omniscient mandarin voice. Robert Cushman

- Runs to Feb. 21. Tue - Sat 8 pm; Sat,Sun 2:30 pm. $18-$22; Sun PWYC. Tarragon Theatre, 30 Bridgman Ave. 416-531-1827

Mump & Smoot in Something Else with Zug

Mump is dictatorial and thin, Smoot is subservient, though with cheeky moments, and chubby. Their relationship is like Laurel and Hardy with the dimensions reversed. There are nice bits but I found it long. Not suitable for children. Robert Cushman

- Runs to Feb. 14 Wed - Sat 8pm; Sun 7pm $13.50-$35 Canadian Stage Theatre 26 Berkeley St. Toronto 416-872-1111; 416-368-3110

Proposals

Al Waxman stars in the Toronto premiere of Neil Simon's comedy, directed by Steven Schipper.

- OPENS Feb. 10; runs until Mar. 20. Mon-Sat 8pm; Wed, Sat 2pm $26.50-$66.50 Royal Alexandra Theatre, 260 King St. W. 416-872- 1212; 1-800-461-3333

Shopping and Fucking

This Mark Ravenhill play comes to us with glowing credentials from London and New York; it isn't as original as its fans have been claiming and its Toronto production is muffled to the point of incoherence, but it's a funny, bracing, and talented work. Robert Cushman

- Runs until Feb. 20. Tue - Sat 8pm; Sun 3pm; added performances Feb. 13, 3pm, and Feb. 14, 8pm. $15-$30. du Maurier Theatre Centre, 231 Queens Quay W. 416-973-4000

Spirits

Spirits, announces Peter Reitzel -- author, director, actor, and program-note writer -- "is a show about North America." The author disavows any intention to preach, but he does nag. Robert Cushman

- Runs to Feb. 6. Sat 8pm. $10 Bathurst Street Theatre, 736 Bathurst St. 416-406-0998

Wit's End

Sandra Shamas shows are avowedly autobiographical, and this one deals with her state of desperation when her marriage ended just as she had decided to put her career on hold for a year. She offers a series of cartoon outlines on a slim but cohesive narrative thread. She has an impeccable sense of rhythm. Most of the time you take it for granted, as you should; in retrospect you realize how perfectly she has pitched every line, weighted every word. Robert Cushman

- Runs to Feb. 20. Thu - Sat, 8pm. $15 - $35. Winter Garden, 189 Yonge St. 416-872-5555

FESTIVALS

The 21st Rhubarb Theatre Festival

The Rhubarb Festival of all new, Canadian theatre promises "risk, riot and rejuvenation." Week one includes: (More) Beaver; Dating the Pirate; Dreaming Elsewhere; Meat; Mono; and We are at War.

- OPENS Feb. 10; runs until Feb. 28. $15 day pass; $20 week pass. Buddies in Bad Times Theatre, 12 Alexander St. 416-975-8555

Weesageechak Begins to Dance: Festival of New Native Plays

The 11th Festival of New Native Plays and Playwrights features public readings of new works by Aboriginal writers from Canada and the United States.

Feb. 6, 8pm: Ukuamaq and The Trickster of Third Avenue East

Feb. 7, 2pm: The Shaman of Waz and A Windigo Tale.

- Runs until Feb. 7 $10 per day. Annex Theatre, 730 Bathurst St. 416-531-4525

MUSICALS

Chicago

Chita Rivera stars as Roxie Hart in this revival of the Bob Fosse/ Kander and Ebb multi-Tony Award-winning Broadway musical.

- Feb. 2-14: Tue - Sat, 8pm; Sun, 7pm; Sat, Sun, 2pm; Feb 15-20: Mon - Sat, 8pm; Wed, Sat, 12 pm; Feb 22-26: Mon - Fri, 8pm; Wed, 2pm. $20-$93. The Princess of Wales Theatre, 300 King St. W. 416- 872-1212; 1800-461-3333

Garden Variations

An historical drag musical comedy. Written and directed by Sky Gilbert, music by Alan Moon.

- Previews Feb. 12-14; OPENS Feb. 16; runs until Feb. 28. Mon - Sat 8:30pm; Sun 2:30pm. $15; previews $5;Tues and Sun PWYC The Theatre Centre, 1032 Queen St. W. 416-538-0988

HMS Starship Pinafore and Trial by Jury

A hybrid of two Gilbert and Sullivan musicals. HMS Pinafore and Trial by Jury blended with updated lyrics and set on the bridge of a Star Trek starship.

- OPENS Feb. 12 - 13, 8pm; Feb. 14, 2pm; Feb. 19-20, 8pm; Feb. 21, 2pm. $16-$18. Leah Posluns Theatre, 4588 Bathurst St. 416-727- 2209

Phantom of the Opera

Andrew Lloyd Webber's lavish, long-running musical continues indefinitely.

- Indefinite run, Tue - Sat, 8pm; Wed, Sat, Sun, 2pm. $50.50- $92. Pantages Theatre. 244 Victoria St. 416-870-8000

CLASSICAL MUSIC AND OPERA

Il Giardino Armonico

Period-instrument ensemble from Italy performs Vivaldi's The Four Seasons and other works.

- Feb. 8, 8pm. $29.50-$34.50. Trinity-St. Paul's United Church, 427 Bloor St. W. 416-872-4255

Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra Amsterdam

Guest soloist is Russian violinist Vladim Repin.

- Feb. 9, 8:30pm. $35-$95. Roy Thomson Hall, 60 Simcoe St. 416- 872-4255

Tafelmusik Orchestra and Chamber Choir

Toronto's acclaimed baroque orchestra performs Mozart's Requiem and Beethoven's First Symphony. Guest conductor is Bruno Weil.

- Feb. 12-13, 8pm. $30-$45. Massey Hall , 178 V ictoria St. 416- 872-4255

Toronto Symphony Orchestra Sileblius, Brahms, Nielsen

With pianist Helene Grimaud.

- Feb. 6, 10 - 11pm. $22.75-$72. Roy Thomson Hall, 60 Simcoe St. 416-593-4828

Concerts

Black Sabbath, with Pantera and Deftones

Ozzy Osbourne et al are back promoting their new CD, Reunion.

- Feb. 9, 8pm. $35-$65. SkyDome, 1 Blue Jays Way 416-870-8000

Buffy Saint-Marie

In concert for one night.

- Feb. 9, 8pm. $32. Heritage Theatre, 86 Main St. N., Brampton. 905-874-2800

The Cardigans, with Kent

The Cardigans perform on the heels of their new CD Gran Turismo, released last month.

- Feb. 9, 8pm. $16. Guvernment, 132 Queens Quay E. 416-870-8000

Tommy Hunter

The sultan of Canadian country is in town for three performances.

- Feb.8-10. 8pm. $42.25. Markham Theatre for the Performing Arts, 171 Town Centre Blvd., Markham 905-305-7469

Tribute to Bob

A tribute to Bob Marley, with Sweet Sensation, Selassie I Power, Kidd Rasta, and the Peacemakers, and a screening of Legend, a film on Marley.

- Feb. 6, 9pm. Opera House, 735 Queen St. E. 416-588-9440

DANCE

Margie Gillis:

Mixed Repertoire

Special guests are Paola Styron and Joao Mauricio.

- Runs until Feb. 6. Sat, 8pm. $20-$34. Premiere Dance Theatre, 207 Queens Quay W. 416-973-4000

National Ballet of Canada: The Taming of the Shrew

The National Ballet presents John Cranko's humourous classic, with Martin Lamy and Rex Harrington on opening night.

- OPENS Feb. 10; runs until Feb. 14; Wed - Sat, 8pm; Sun, 2pm. $19-$85. Hummingbird Centre for the Performing Arts, 1 Front St. E. 416-345-9595

GALLERIES AND MUSEUMS

Art Gallery of Ontario

Lecture: "The View from the Far Shore: Vision and Difference in the Work of Joyce Wieland"

- Feb. 7, 2 pm. $9; AGO Members $7

The Art of Betty Goodwin

- Runs until Mar. 17. $7; stud/sen/child $5.50. 317 Dundas St. W. 416-979-6648

Jane Corkin Gallery

Gallery I: Carol Marino Exhibition: Recent Work

Gallery II: Andre Kertesz Exhibition: A Lifetime of Perception

- OPENS Feb. 11 at 6pm; runs until Apr. 10. 179 John St., suite 302 416-979-1980

Montgomery's Inn

In Our Own Words: Tales of Slavery, Escape and the Underground Railway

- Runs until Mar. 14. $2; stud/sen $1.50; child $1; fam $6. 4709 Dundas W. 416-394-8113.

Royal Ontario Museum

50 Years of Advertising and Design in Canada

- OPENS Feb. 13; runs until July 18.

Wilderness to Studio: Four Views of Paul Kane

- Runs until Feb. 28 . 100 Queen's Park 416-586-5549

ARTS AND LETTERS

Book Launch

Careless Love: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley, by Peter Guralnick

Presented by World Literacy of Canada and H.B. Fenn & Company, the evening also includes a reading by music historian Rob Bowman.

- Feb. 8, 6:30 pm. $15. Nicholas Hoare Bookstore, 45 Front St. E. 416-863-6262

Debate

The Swansea Debating and Public Speaking Society

"This house resolves that Love is better in a cold climate." All welcome.

- Feb. 10, 7:30pm. Free admission Swansea Town Hall, 95 Lavinia Ave. (0.75 km SW of Runnymede subway)

Reading

My Name's Not George

Author Stanley G. Grizzle reads from and discusses his autobiographical book, My Name's Not George, for young adults.

- Feb. 10, 2-3pm. Free admission. York Woods Branch Public Library, 1785 Finch Ave. W. 416-395-5980

FILM

Dakan

(1997) French and Mandikan w/subtitles. This controversial African interpretation of Romeo and Juliet chronicles two men who come out of the closet and are ostracized by their families and communities.

- Feb. 13, 9pm. $8; stud/sen $5. Studio Theatre, 235 Queens Quay W.

Sao Bernardo

(1931) Portugese w/subtitles. A peasant transforms himself into a wealthy landowner at the cost of his soul; Leon Hirszman directs.

- Feb. 7, 3pm

Kameradschaft

(1931) German w/subtitles. German comrades risk their lives to rescue French miners in the midst of ongoing hostilities. Kameradschaft is considered revolutionary for its experimental use of sound and its elaborate sets; directed by G.W. Pabst.

- Feb. 9, 6:30 pm. Jackman Hall, Art Gallery of Ontario, 317 Dundas St. W. 416-968-3456

KIDS

Ants in Yer Pants

A kids' show that includes music, "wacky" choreography, and championship yo-yo tricks.

z OPENS Feb. 7; runs until Feb. 28. Sun, 11am and 2pm. $7.50. Solar Stage, 4950 Yonge St. 416-368-8031

Mella Mella

An ancient tale from Zimbabwe about a young girl's quest to save her father's life and her village. The production includes traditional African storytelling, music, dance, and puppetry.

- OPENS Feb. 7-28 (no public performance Feb. 19). Fri, 8pm; Sun, 1pm and 3pm. $14. Young Peoples Theatre, 165 Front St. E. 416-862- 2222

The Stupendous Adventures of Don Quixote

Cervantes' masterpiece chronicles the escapades of Don Quixote and his companion, Sancho Panza. Adapted by Andre Lachance.

- OPENS Feb. 6 -21. Sat, 2pm and 7pm; Sun, 11am and 2pm. $20 Young Peoples Theatre, 165 Front St. E. 416-862-2222

Toronto Winterfest `99

The city-wide winter carnival encompasses more than 400 things to do and see. The event kicks off Feb. 12 at 7:30 pm at the Mel Lastman Square ice rink with Brian Orser, children's entertainer Fred Penner, and Mayor Mel Lastman.

- Feb. 12-14, various locations; for more information 416-395- 7300. www.city.toronto.on.ca.

Illustration

Black & White Photo: Margie Gillis ; Black & White Photo: Mask ; Black & White Photo: Courtesy Jane Corkin Gallery / Photographs taken by Canadian photographer Carol Marino, "Kinmount Park Spring, 1998," will be on display at the Jane Corkin Gallery as part of her Recent Work exhibit beginning Feb. 11. Marino says she has no interest in reproducing reality. "I see remarkable, beautiful things I know I can use to (hopefully) make a remarkable work of art. ; Black & White Photo: Mump and Smoot ;

Word count: 1890
