---
title: 'Defile it under ''R'' for raunchy: [Toronto Edition]'
author: Chris Knight; Tara Ariano; Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Post Movies
date: '2005-08-26'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/330362376/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1792
article_category: Film Review
collection: ''
era: contemporary
year: '2005'
production_title: The 40 Year-Old Virgin
company: ''
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions:
- The 40 Year-Old Virgin
- Wedding Crashers
- Chris Knight
- Tara Ariano
- Robert Cushman
- Steve Carell
- Catherine Keener
- Paul Rudd
- Vince Vaughn
- Owen Wilson
- Judd Apatow
- Freaks and Geeks
- The Graduate
tags: []
automatic_tags: []
director: []
actors:
- Steve Carell
- Catherine Keener
- Paul Rudd
playwright: []
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: duplicate_edition_variant
canonical_file: 2005.08.26.National_Post.Defile_It_Under_R_For_Raunchy_National_Edition.md
editorial_notes: Toronto edition duplicate of the same-date National edition Popcorn
  Panel on The 40 Year-Old Virgin; choose canonical publication treatment before final
  site launch.
---
popcorn@nationalpost.com

Quentin Tarantino has said the sign of a good film is that it makes you want to go home, eat some pie and talk about it. With that in mind, our Popcorn Panel features film buffs feuding in this space each week.

THIS WEEK'S PANEL:

- Chris Knight, the Post's chief film critic

- Tara Ariano, the editor of the Web sites Fametracker.com and TelevisionWithoutPity.com

- Robert Cushman, the Post's theatre critic

THIS WEEK'S PIE: Cherry.

THIS WEEK'S SUBJECT: The 40 Year-Old Virgin

CHRIS: Sitting atop the box office last weekend was the politically incorrect and oh-so-funny 40 Year-Old Virgin, which earned a respectable US$20-million and will surely almost double that this weekend as the love-in takes hold -- moviegoers and critics alike adore this film.

Down at No. 4 after six strong weeks, the politically incorrect and almost-as-funny Wedding Crashers, now having taken home (as Tara would say) 177.6 million tasty crab cakes.

These films are both R-rated and raunchy, and both star men- children (man-children? man-childs? whatever): Steve Carell as a hirsute but otherwise stunted-at-puberty type who collects comic books and action figures; Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson as a pair of ladykillers who suddenly realize in the midst of their youthful shenanigans that "we're not that young."

So why the boffo box office? Are North Americans trying vicariously to recapture their own youth and (in Carell's case, anyway) innocence? Or could it be the simple fact that nothing else this summer has been so grownup and at the same time so damned funny?

TARA: "Recapture," nothing -- the characters in both Crashers and Virgin are just about as mature as my friends and I are. (I can't recall how many times my sister and I have sat around playing videogames and trash-talking each other with such political incorrectness that if we spoke that way to strangers, we'd probably get arrested.)

How much Virgin and Crashers have in common beyond their ratings is debatable; however, there is something to be said for a comedy that goes all the way to the joke -- whether it involves a bad word or a boobie -- instead of pulling up short for the sake of the children. The scene in Virgin in which Paul Rudd commandeers a camcorder wouldn't have worked if the producers had been forbidden to show the Smart Tech TV screens broadcasting the image of his ass ... so thank God they weren't.

ROBERT: Well, I haven't seen Wedding Crashers, but I'd guess that the success of The 40 Year Old Virgin is because it is funny. And charming. In a way it's trying to have it both ways. It's sex-farce mingled with romantic comedy, and it's the latter element that wins out. Catherine Keener is a wonderful sexy-sad older woman -- well, she may well not be older than Carell physically but she has to be emotionally -- so it's rather like seeing The Graduate with Anne Bancroft allowed to win out, which everybody always wanted anyway.

And it's well-constructed; the jokes build and pay off, right across the movie. I don't think it's all that wonderful, but I'm not sure it's better than the movies I avoid after seeing their trailers. A new Hollywood sex comedy for people who don't like new Hollywood sex comedies.

CHRIS: I do like Hollywood sex-comedies, as long as they give me credit for intelligence. That seems to be where people are connecting with these films. And I don't even get all the jokes (are you really gay if you like Coldplay?), but I don't care -- I appreciate that the filmmakers trust me to figure out where to laugh rather than feed me lame cues like the word "man-whore." (Yeah, I'm talkin' to you, Bigalow.)

In fact, the films are weakest when they fall back on the tired tropes of the genre: Wedding Crashers' trash-talking grandma; 40 Year-Old's drunk date from hell. We've seen these characters in other movies, but there's a lot we haven't seen -- although we're sure to see some copycat comedies in a year or so. Sigh.

TARA: Another reason that I think Virgin was maybe a tiny bit better than Crashers is that, its grabby premise aside, all of the events in it seemed like they could have actually happened. The reasons for Carell's Andy to have given up on women at some point in the past rang true. His co-workers' unidentifiable feeling that Andy was off somehow (virgin, serial killer -- what's the difference, really?) seemed believable. And the notion that someone as innocent as Andy could win over a woman as world-weary as Trish wasn't so outlandish when the film did such a great job showing his many layers of heartbreaking sweetness.

Maybe it's robbing the movie of its scandalous R-rated frisson to put it this way, but at the centre of all the raunch (which is always fun) was a very sweet, G-rated love story (which is hard to pull off without its seeming twee). Aw!

ROBERT: I think it achieves that by glossing over the question of how Andy actually feels about his virginal status. The movie never makes up its mind whether he's happy with it or resents it. (His embarrassment at the poker game becomes embarrassing in itself, which is maybe a sign it's truthful.) And his buddies -- I suppose it's plausible that they'd be concerned to get him laid, but not that it would become an obsession, even if they are working out their own frustrations And you want to yell at them -- or I did -- when they actually try to stop him from getting together with the woman who's right for him, apparently just for the sake of prolonging the plot. I did think the mother-daughter shouting matches were very convincing; straight from the world of Judd Apatow's sadly bumped Freaks and Geeks -- which I think was a greater achievement than this picture.

NEXT WEEK'S PIE: Pumpkin.

NEXT WEEK'S SUBJECT: The Brothers Grimm

Illustration

Black & White Photo: Suzanne Hanover, Universal Studios / Watching Catherine Keener with Steve Carell is rather like seeing The Graduate with Anne Bancroft allowed to win out, says Robert Cushman.

Word count: 1032
