---
title: ItS Like Melrose Place Meets My Two Dads
author: Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Arts & Life
date: '2006-03-29'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/330523633/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1611
article_category: Television Review
collection:
- The Television Collection
- The Canadian Collection
era: contemporary
year: '2006'
production_title: At The Hotel
company: CBC
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions:
- Ken Finkleman
- J. Kelly Nestruck
- Vanessa Farquharson
- Don McKellar
- Martha Henry
- Hrant Alianak
- Sarah Cornell
tags: []
automatic_tags: []
director: []
actors:
- Don McKellar
- Martha Henry
- Hrant Alianak
- Sarah Cornell
playwright:
- Ken Finkleman
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: multi_author_panel
publication_status: archive_only
editorial_notes: Finklepanel article includes Robert Cushman alongside J. Kelly Nestruck
  and Vanessa Farquharson; attribution and excerpt treatment should be reviewed before
  publication.
---
The next episode of At the Hotel airs next Tuesday at 9 p.m. on CBC.

Ken Finkleman, the TV auteur behind The Newsroom, Foreign Objects and More Tears, turns his acerbic lens on the hospitality industry in his new six-part series At The Hotel. Our three Finklefans will check in after each new episode to see how the service measures up to his past wry romps.

OUR GUESTS:

- J. Kelly Nestruck, Arts & Life reporter

- Vanessa Farquharson, Arts & Life reporter

- Robert Cushman, the Post's theatre critic

KELLY: At the Hotel's third episode has come and gone and this miniseries finally seems to be hitting its stride. We marvelled earlier that Ken Finkleman was not only staying behind the camera this time, but had refrained from writing in a self-loathing, philandering narcissist, like the ones who usually dominate his television shows. And yet, here was Don McKellar as a pretentious video director; the bit where he interrupts his discussion of "duality" to inquire as to whether there are any rooms with telephones in the bathroom was classic Finkleman. Then, Ken himself showed up in a two-second cameo. Turns out restraint is not the fellow's strong suit, and it's a good thing, too -- this was the best and most satisfying episode.

VANESSA: I agree. McKellar was fantastic, especially when he kept cutting and reshooting that interview -- inserting, then retracting the word "cancer" before finally replacing it with "war." But perhaps what made me the happiest was the marked absence of Adelaide and her bellboyfriend, with their ya-ta-ta musical routines. This episode's rock-out tunes, courtesy of The Mark Inside, melded so much better with the erratic, manic feel of the show.

The only annoying thing this time around was the chambermaid with the horrible accent (I think it was either Russian or an Eastern European hybrid, but it was hard to tell, and the weird spitting thing just made it worse).

But my question for you guys is: Do you think Piper will be able to convert her new openly gay, alcoholic surrogate fathers into domestic, homework-helping parents? Is this My Two Dads all over again, or a significant comment on gay marriage and adoption?

ROBERT: And do we care? I don't, although the thrice-orphaned (she's now lost her aunt and uncle as well as her mom), terrifyingly self-assured Piper is shaping up to be my favourite character. But the affectless tone of the whole thing, though presumably intentional, saps my will to get interested in anything. I enjoyed the McKellar character, too, and yes, I recognized him as the Finkleman-surrogate. But his effectiveness is minimized by the near- certainty that he, like the previous week's comedians and politicos, won't be back; maybe there'll be a general reunion in the last instalment but somehow I doubt it. So the show still lacks a focus. It's just a series of vignettes, telling us how contemptible people are, especially people in the media. Why do we have to go to a hotel to find that out?

KELLY: It is, indeed, hard to get worked up about the possibility that a luxury hotel where guests regularly learn the deadman's float in the pool might be turned into, God forbid, a business tower. But I'm beginning to make my peace with the ridiculous central conceit and embrace the weekly guests, if only because I, unlike most viewers, am not allowed to stop watching. The melodramatic nature of the main characters is growing on me a bit as well, to be honest. It was pure Melrose Place when the hotel owner, Lucy's nephew, demanded that his father, "Take care of that bitch." Zee will have to take him out next.

VANESSA: That's exactly what I thought when I was watching it, Kelly -- but more like Melrose Place meets David Lynch, with the innocent blonde maid as the new Courtney Thorne-Smith and Glenlivet on the rocks the new Pabst Blue Ribbon.

But Robert's right, too. I'm starting to worry that, if this doesn't all build up to some mindblowing twist at the end, I'll feel super ripped-off.

ROBERT: I can't help thinking, Vanessa, that you could feel even more ripped-off if there is an all-encompassing revelation at the end. It would, after all, have to account for two generations of characters. Try tying that up neatly. Like Kelly, I'm getting a little more hooked on the permanent residents. I don't care about their storylines but I do like their quirks. I suppose the interplay between Martha Henry's dope-addled hotelier and Hrant Alianak as her sinister but devoted minder is meant to remind us of Swanson and von Stroheim in Sunset Boulevard; anyway it does. I enjoy the parade of actors whom I know from my night job. So, I feel inclined to defend the honour of the presumably Russian chambermaid; I mean this is Sarah Cornell, who was a riot playing Ulla the Swedish sex-bomb (accents done here) in The Producers. I hope she gets to do a number some time.

Word count: 839
