---
title: Slinky Plotlines Left In Knots
author: Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Arts & Life
date: '2006-04-19'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/330453101/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1597
article_category: Television Review
collection:
- The Television Collection
- The Canadian Collection
era: contemporary
year: '2006'
production_title: At the Hotel
company: CBC
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions:
- Ken Finkleman
- J. Kelly Nestruck
- Vanessa Farquharson
- Carlo Rota
- Robert Rabinovitch
- J.J. Knowlton
- Kirstine Layfield
tags: []
automatic_tags:
- Hotels & motels; Websites
director:
- Ken Finkleman
actors:
- Carlo Rota
playwright: []
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: multi_author_panel
publication_status: archive_only
editorial_notes: Finklepanel article includes Robert Cushman alongside J. Kelly Nestruck
  and Vanessa Farquharson; attribution and excerpt treatment should be reviewed before
  publication.
---
Ken Finkleman, the TV auteur behind The Newsroom, Foreign Objects and More Tears, turns his acerbic lens on the hospitality industry in his new six-part series At the Hotel. Our three Finklefans will check in after each new episode to see how the service measures up to his past wry romps.

OUR GUESTS:

- J. Kelly Nestruck, Arts & Life reporter

- Vanessa Farquharson, Arts & Life reporter

- Robert Cushman, the Post's theatre critic

KELLY Well, At the Hotel is over. I'm pleased, and a mite surprised, to see that Finkleman actually did wrap up all his storylines. There was even a twist, one that turned a murder "mystery" into a "murder" mystery. Frankly, I was expecting the whodunit to end like this: "Ken Finkleman" emerges from behind the camera, beds the woman playing the chambermaid, then kills her in the CBC parking lot (next to Robert Rabinovitch's SUV) so his wife won't find out, then recasts and starts the whole thing over. So: he got me!

Now, obviously, there are a few loose ends. Like, if the death in the pool was a suicide, who hired those men who kept trying to kill the chambermaid who stumbled upon the scene? But it would be a little niggling of me to quibble with details like that about a series that ended with the entire cast lip-synching to opera. Let's look at the big question, then: Finkleman checked out with all his baggage, but did he pay the bill?

ROBERT Not to my satisfaction. An interesting suggestion, I guess, that the hotel was entirely staffed by people with operatic voices. But did anyone care that Madame Boratto was dead? I don't mean empathize, or be moved, but just be interested? I was surprised, I guess, that so much of the episode was devoted to the main storylines, but I suppose it had to be if there was to be any wrapping-up at all. But it was still inert, depending heavily on flashbacks to scenes that I could hardly remember and that didn't seem any more interesting the second time around. Yes, I know that that's how Hercule Poirot would have done it, and there's an element of parody here, but again, so what? There's been a fundamental contradiction between the one-off stories that have filled up every episode, and what the publicity calls "the six-episode arc." This time they did interact more wittily than usual: I liked the detail of the nervous adulterous woman, in what looked like yet another self-contained storyline, so anxious to get out of the hotel, that she steps over the dead body of a principal character from the main plot. The opening scene between the hoteliere and the young resident historian was tense and funny. But the suggestion at the end that the whole thing has just been his novel? Please.

VANESSA Tell me about it -- it was almost as bad as the "It was all just a dream" ending. And the freeze frame of the writer sassily tossing up the carefully snipped bits of his hotel bill didn't help, either. I would have much rather it closed with the opera lip synch, or with that moment Robert mentioned where the Holly Golightly-type character steps over the corpse in the hallway as though it was a pile of dirty laundry. Even the bizarre twist involving the chambermaid becoming an Arabian queen, which I felt wasn't as funny as it should have been, would have made for a better out-with-a- bang ending.

And what of Piper? Her storyline got wrapped up when the teacher joined forces with the My Two Gay Dads characters, but I missed her in this episode.

KELLY If you're hankering for more Piper, you might want to visit the At the Hotel interactive Web site, which is quite fun to poke around. There you'll find politico J.J. Knowlton's blog, Eric Clapton's tribute to Piper's mom Folly, and Jeremy the bellhop's home phone number in Etobicoke, Ont. (which, if you call, is actually a restaurant).

There's also some Chateau Rousseau letterhead that reveals the hotel's location is at 23 Buckingham Street in Toronto -- thus confirming that all those references to "our woman at the Times" and overtly religious politicians are out of place.

So, the Web site gets a good mark. The series, on the other hand, had a few nice moments, but was otherwise scatterbrained and uninvolving. Hopefully the CBC's new programming head Kirstine Layfield will demand a little more focus from Finkleman before greenlighting his next project. Or perhaps it's time to groom for the Ceeb to groom some new television auteurs?

ROBERT: Here's my final balance -- For: The dark, burnished visuals. One or two of the guest story-lines. Most of the acting, guests and regulars. In the end, my favourite performance was Carlo Rota's omniscient front-desk man, with his untraceable accent; he summed up the imperturbable, slightly disdainful attitude that I presume the show was aiming for. Though, since he was always a commentator, never a player, his impact was limited. (I know I keep saying this but compare Finkleman himself in The Newsroom, both protagonist and walking value-judgment.)

Against: The refusal to decide on what they were actually doing. Of course, the long overarching narrative, with self-contained individual narratives playing out within each episode, is an established TV form. Here, the brevity of the series forced more attention on the central story, which couldn't take it. The authors were neither committed enough to it, nor inventive enough with it. They seemed to want the best of both worlds, to mock the format but also to milk it. And, given the limited number of shows, there was an amazing amount of duplication: Two washed-up Jewish comics, two adulterous couples, two hedonistic gay male couples Some of the narrative short-cuts were shameful: The teacher who gets drunk, the chambermaid who becomes a princess and then morphs into a very tired revue-sketch -- I'd date it in the 1950s -- on instant celebrity and the mock-celebratory ending that's also supposed to pass as an epiphany. Of course anything can happen in a hotel. That's the atrraction. And that's the trap.

VANESSA: That Web site crashed my computer. But I think Kelly's right about the fact that we need more Canadian TV auteurs -- specifically in the art-house, intentional-melodrama department, in which our filmmakers seem to be keeping up just fine.

But if At the Hotel doesn't linger in most people's memories for very long, I do sincerely hope it finds a home in the creative departments of local design firms because, moreso than TV auteurs, Canada needs some sultry, old-school hotels with wicked art and frilly chambermaids like the Chateau Rousseau. Toronto's Windsor Arms, which posed for this hotel's facade, does come close with their high tea and their dapper bellboys, but where's the gothic pool? C'mon!

Either way, success or not, At the Hotel has at the very least piqued my curiosity as to what Finkleman has in store for us next -- whatever it is, I know I'm tuning in.

Illustration

Black & White Photo: CBC / "Given the limited number of shows, there was an amazing amount of duplication" in the characters of At the Hotel.; Colour Photo: AT THE HOTEL: It's checkout time, but does our auteur skip out on the bill?: (Photo ran on pg. B1.)

Word count: 1231
