---
title: This Is Canadian Hbo? YouRe Kidding, Right?
author: Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Arts & Life
date: '2006-04-05'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/330441783/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1603
article_category: Television Review
collection:
- The Television Collection
- The Canadian Collection
era: contemporary
year: '2006'
production_title: At the Hotel
company: CBC
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions:
- Ken Finkleman
- J. Kelly Nestruck
- Vanessa Farquharson
- Tom McCamus
tags: []
automatic_tags:
- Architects
- Criticism
- Hotels & motels
- Television programs
director: []
actors: []
playwright:
- Ken Finkleman
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: multi_author_panel
publication_status: archive_only
editorial_notes: Finklepanel article includes Robert Cushman alongside J. Kelly Nestruck
  and Vanessa Farquharson; attribution and excerpt treatment should be reviewed before
  publication.
---
The next episode of At the Hotel airs Tuesday at 9 p.m. on CBC.

Ken Finkleman, the TV auteur behind The Newsroom, Foreign Objects and More Tears, turns his acerbic lens on the hospitality industry in his new six-part series At the Hotel. Our three Finklefans will check in after each new episode to see how the service measures up to his past wry romps.

OUR GUESTS:

- J. Kelly Nestruck, Arts & Life reporter

- Vanessa Farquharson, Arts & Life reporter

- Robert Cushman, the Post's theatre critic

KELLY: Twenty-five years after Stephen Bochco smashed the linear, one-story structure of episodic television, Ken Finkleman is making me yearn for those simpler pre-Hill Street Blues times. The most recent episode of his At the Hotel series suffered from some serious attention deficit disorder with characters like the (faux) French thief Bill DuJour, the research-stealing scientist and the hotel detective's old flame disappearing shortly after being introduced. I feel like I'm being told a bunch of half-stories and plot outlines; it's very frustrating. And I can't believe Finkleman actually brought in a mentalist to get out of the narrative corner he painted himself into.

VANESSA: Kelly, you're only 12! Too young to be such a traditionalist. Besides, this entire series is aimed at audiences looking for something a little unconventional; something homegrown that isn't Da Vinci's Inquest or This is Wonderland. It's for those who want not only a different aesthetic, but a different structure entirely. And I think you're missing the point when it comes to the tone of the whole thing: It's supposed to feel a little A.D.D. -- the stories are meant to be left open and incomplete, and the fact that you're frustrated watching it is surely Finkleman's intent. It's a hotel, it's full of transients, a lot of stuff happens underneath the surface and we're getting to see some of it, but it doesn't always cohere into a fully developed narrative for our benefit, nor does it involve characters we should necessarily care about.

ROBERT: Ah, but these things go in cycles. Maybe Kelly's too young to be much impressed by yesterday's ideas of uncoventionality. As the senior partner here I have to say, so what? Yes, it's true that in passing through a hotel -- as indeed passing through life -- you would encounter many frustrating, half-told stories. But does it take six hours to tell us this?

Or perhaps it would be fairer to say one hour, because this episode was concerned more than any other with fragmentary stories. One of them, I thought, worked: the Editor and the Architect (we never do learn their names) who fall adulterously in love, and have to face the consequences -- which are going to be painful or worse, whatever their choices. One would like to know more about them, but one doesn't have to. The situation has been laid very economically bare. And I did care about them. Perhaps more important, I had the feeling the authors did. But the other guests? Part of me hopes they'll reappear, because they seem like unfinished business; barely started business in a couple of cases. Part of me will be content if I never hear of them again.

KELLY: The Editor and the Architect were certainly more involving than anyone else in this episode. Still, I didn't really buy their awkward flirting in the hall, when the Architect delivered that heavy-handed pick-up line about how "some poet" he was reading described art as "a mirror we hold up to see ourselves." This must be a theme Finkleman is interested in exploring, since there are at least a couple of shots of characters looking in the mirror every episode.

Yet it was odd to hear that saying embraced, because I haven't caught more than a glimpse of myself or anyone else I know in Finkleman's mirror so far. I think it must be tilted away towards a television set airing reruns of his Foolish Heart series, daytime soap operas and French Kiss starring Kevin Kline. Sometimes I like what is reflected back at me, but if he keeps dropping threads like this I'm going to seriously consider getting Brecht's hammer.

VANESSA: Well you're definitely right about that poetry business - - my notes read, "As if that B.S. pick-up line would work!"

While watching this episode I was thinking of what Robert said back in the first Finklepanel about not laughing but feeling as though he should be. This time around, I may not have been laughing outright, but some smirks definitely cropped up. People getting hit over the head with blunt objects is always funny, as is dialogue like, "The Cardinal does not sneak." And the nod to Psycho, reversed so the person in the shower is attacking -- with a loofah at that -- was great stuff.

In the end, I think this is really as close as we're getting to a Canadian HBO program, and Finkleman deserves some credit for that.

ROBERT: You mean this is our answer to The Sopranos? Or even Six Feet Under? We'll die of shame. Anyway, we've done far better minority shows than this one. Can you imagine This Is Wonderland as an American network show? Or Slings and Arrows? Or, indeed, The Newsroom? Your point about the pick-up line is well-taken; even when this show gets a good idea, it falls back on corny devices. Conversely, what was it with that Cardinal scene; all that elaborate preparation for one go-nowhere gag? And is it conceivable, even in this hotel, that the chambermaid who incapacitated him would be left off the hook so easily? Who's running the place anyway? We still haven't met the manager or, as far as I recall, heard such a person mentioned. And I do think the show is trying to have it both ways. We have one-off story-lines, with an air of chic disposability. But we're still asked to maintain our interest in an ongoing narrative. But frankly, whenever the murder plot or the hotel-takeover plot raise their heads, they're so limp, I've invariably forgotten what happened last. Or is that supposed to be ironic, too?

Illustration

Black & White Photo: CBC / Faux French thief Bill DuJour, played by Tom McCamus at right, eyes two hotel guests. His is one of too many storylines.

Word count: 1057
