---
title: When's Check Out Time?
author: Robert Cushman
publication: National Post
section: Arts & Life
date: '2006-03-08'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/330392154/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1629
article_category: Television Review
collection:
- The Television Collection
- The Canadian Collection
era: ''
year: '2006'
production_title: At the Hotel
company: CBC
venue: ''
city: ''
coordinates: []
mentions:
- Ken Finkleman
- J. Kelly Nestruck
- Vanessa Farquharson
tags: []
automatic_tags:
- Film & stage music
- Hotels & motels
- Murders & murder attempts
- Musical performances
director: []
actors: []
playwright: []
composer_lyricist: []
musical_director: []
choreographer: []
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians: []
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: multi_author_panel
publication_status: archive_only
editorial_notes: Finklepanel article includes Robert Cushman alongside J. Kelly Nestruck
  and Vanessa Farquharson; attribution and excerpt treatment should be reviewed before
  publication.
---
The next episode of At the Hotel airs on Tuesday at 8 ET on CBC.

Ken Finkleman, the TV auteur behind The Newsroom, Foreign Objects and More Tears, turns his acerbic lens on the hospitality industry in his new six-part series At The Hotel. Our three Finklefans will check in after each new episode to see how the service measures up to his past wry romps.

OUR GUESTS:

- J. Kelly Nestruck, Arts & Life reporter

- Vanessa Farquharson, Arts & Life reporter

- Robert Cushman, the Post's theatre critic

KELLY: There was a lot of promise in the opening episode of At the Hotel. With two unsolved murders, an illicit affair and various other nefarious schemes unfolding, theres potential for plenty of naughty fun to spy through the keyhole.

Still, Im more than a little concerned that the series is going to lose focus and Ken Finkleman will check out without paying his bill. Already, characters have burst into Guys and Dolls and Tom Waits songs with little dramatic purpose. An hour was a very short period of time to introduce the author writing a book about the hotel, the new, innocent chambermaid, the bellboy running a craps game, his Jersey girlfriend, the bankrupt British aristocrat, the rich, washed-up singer and her precocious daughter, etc., etc.

Is there any possible way this is going to get wrapped up nicely in just six episodes?

ROBERT: And there are more sub-plots to come. I, too, wonder whether they'll all be tied up, but I also find that I don't much care, not even about the double murder. Im tantalized, but Im not much involved, or even amused; I hardly laughed, though the tone seemed to be comic. I miss Finkleman's own man-you-love-to-hate persona at the centre of it. Without him to deplore, and to covertly identify with, it seems at the moment icy to no purpose. Satirical, but of what? I don't know what the musical numbers are doing here, except to add another kind of style.

VANESSA: Its important to differentiate between the shows music versus its musical numbers. I was enjoying the late-night, soporific duets at the piano; but as soon as that first ditty between the chambermaid and her craps boyfriend kicked in, I thought, Oh no! No no no, NO!"

The best thing about At the Hotel, I think, is the way it looks. The eerily symmetrical framing, the shadows -- even the art hanging on the walls in the background is intriguing. I love the sinister character of the hotel pool and the crispness of the maids' uniforms.

AND I DISAGREE SOMEWHAT WITH ROBERT: I don't think its really meant to be comic. Or, when it is, its such a dark form of comedy that the audience definitely isn't supposed to laugh out loud.

KELLY: I don't particularly care about the murders either, Robert, and were not alone. With the exception of the hotel owner, none of the characters seems worried that someone was shot and that the murderer is at large. Hopefully the gunman will take out a couple more hotel residents before hes caught, starting with the obnoxious Adelaide.

ROBERT: I'm not sure whether Vanessa was covering her ears because she hated the song or because of the total break in convention. If it's the latter, I thoroughly agree; all the other music is stuff that the characters might realistically perform or listen to in their normal lives.

Otherwise, youre doing a musical, and you cant do that for just one number -- not unless you're The Simpsons.

VANESSA: It's true -- unless it's animated and hyper-ironic, I find any musical number within the television medium instills an intense secondary embarrassment, especially when the song ends and the characters have to awkwardly go back to pretending to be real again.

But aside from these choreographed slip-ups, I think Finkleman has tapped into something interesting here: the vast array of personalities that call such a transitory place home. Although, with such esoteric dialogue as, "Best to avoid empty rooms as one gets older," At the Hotel may be pushing the pretension envelope, but it's hooked me enough to keep watching.

Illustration

Black & White Photo: CBC / Murder or no murder, hotel chambermaid Jenny has other problems on her hands.

Word count: 714
