---
title: Queen'S Soulless Show For A Narcissistic Generation; Few Songs Work In Contrived
  Musical
author: Robert Cushman
publication: The Ottawa Citizen
section: Arts
date: '2007-04-14'
url: https://www.proquest.com/hnpglobeandmail/docview/241073030/abstract/667CD29A602A4033PQ/1416
article_category: Musical Review
collection: The Musical Collection
era: contemporary
year: '2007'
production_title: We Will Rock You
company: Mirvish Productions
venue: Canon Theatre
city: Toronto
coordinates:
- 43.6543
- -79.3791
mentions: []
tags: []
automatic_tags:
- General Interest Periodicals--Canada
director:
- Ben Elton
actors:
- Yvan Pedneault
- Erica Peck
- Evan Buliung
- Alanna Bridgewater
- Jack Langeduk
playwright:
- Ben Elton
composer_lyricist:
- Queen
musical_director: []
choreographer:
- Arlene Phillips
orchestrator: []
arranger: []
assistant_director: []
stage_manager: []
assistant_musical_director: []
vocal_director: []
dance_captain: []
fight_director: []
dramaturg: []
producer: []
assistant_set_designer: []
assistant_costume_designer: []
set_designer: []
costume_designer: []
lighting_designer: []
sound_designer: []
musicians:
- Rick Fox
performers: []
editorial_status: done
editorial_issue_type: duplicate_edition_variant
editorial_notes: 'Editorial disposition set on 2026-04-25: duplicate_edition_variant
  retained archive-only for provenance and excluded from standard public review browsing
  unless later chosen as a canonical page. Prior note: Syndicated/alternate publication
  of the National Post We Will Rock You review from 2007-04-12.'
publication_status: archive_only
---
TORONTO - There's a line in We Will Rock You that asks, in effect, what you get when you combine pre-packaged soulless entertainment with a brain-washed audience. The answer, though the show itself seems unaware of it, is that you get We Will Rock You.

Its a jukebox musical built around the songs of Queen. A story has been devised, into which the numbers have to be more or less arbitrarily stuffed. Its the same formula used for Mamma Mia!, with better music and lyrics, an even worse book, incomparably less slickness in presentation and the same general level of dumbness.

The plotline that's been dreamed up by Ben Elton, the British comedian, is science-fictional and somewhat evangelical. Elton has also directed the show, presumably in imitation of the wildly successful London original; this, though, is a strictly Canadian production, with on-the-whole good local talent. As payback for that, we have a slew of pandering local references, making the show the latest big musical to play like a Ross Petty pantomime, only not as good.

We are in the year 2307, with the whole world controlled by an Internet corporation called Globalsoft. As tyrannies go, it does indeed seem fairly soft; its most repressive act is to ban live rock music. Consumers are confined to whatever downloaded enervating entertainment the company thinks is good for them. I don't know if other kinds of live music have been forbidden since, apart from one sneering reference to modern jazz, the show never acknowledges that such things could have existed. It believes the words rock" and "music are synonymous. Its worldview is as totalitarian as the one it purports to oppose; its also more frightening since it bears a closer resemblance to things as they are.

Queen wrote a song called Killer Queen, so thats the name -- and the number -- that the show bestows on its villainess, Globalsoft's boss. It's unclear how she maintains her hold on power since all she seems to care about is her bikini wax, but megalomaniacs are notoriously narcissistic. And thats how Alanna Bridgewater acts and sings this one, with more effort than effect. She has a sneering sadistic henchman called Khashoggi; hes Evan Buliung, a fine actor trying valiantly to lower his standards. Opposing them are two youths whose brains have somehow remained unwashed: Galileo Figaro, whose dreams are inexplicably filled with shards of old lyrics, and Scaramouche, whose social and sartorial independence earn her the scorn of her peers at Ga Ga (virtual) High. This latter-century Winston and Julia are embodied, very well, by Yvan Pedneault and Erica Peck. Figaro and Scaramouche join a rebel cadre known as the Bohemians, and they themselves are of course named after references in Queen's biggest and most puzzling song, Bohemian Rhapsody, which never gets fully performed in the show proper. I guess integrating and making sense of it would have been too much of a dramaturgical challenge.

Our young couple take the musical into the 21st century by having sex (non-virtual) on their first date and refusing to shut up about it afterwards. The show itself takes a dim view of the new millennium, pegging its dawn as the moment at which music started to go profit-driven and homogenized. (It blames this on boy bands.") This is rubbish. Rock has been a million-dollar electric machine since the 1950s, and it staggers the mind how a culture that has everybody buying the same records can pass itself off as nonconformist. The attitude is a product of the hype it affects to despise. A music so enslaved to technology was begging to be commodified, asking in fact for the download-future as depicted in We Will Rock You. And, I know it's foolish to ask logical questions of a show like this, but I will anyway: If the music of Queen is supposed to stand for artistic and personal freedom, how come the baddies get to sing it as well? In fact the music fares rather badly here, despite the best endeavours of the cast and of Rick Foxs onstage band, which is revealed late but was there all the time. (But if it was there, doesnt that make the conflict sort of redundant? And if the KillerQueen is so powerful and evil, why does she fold so easily? Sorry, I'll shut up.) The only songs that really work are Crazy Little Thing Called Love and the title number, both of them done as straight-on performances. The rest are hobbled by being told to illustrate plot and character situations for which they were never designed. A lot of Queen's songs actually have the teasing tendril-trailing quality of seeming to have been extracted from some unwritten musical. But they werent written for this musical (even though the bands surviving members are on its wagon). The show irons out their ironies and reduces them to noise.

What else? Spectators are issued with little green light-sticks that they obediently wave in the air. Audiences (and not just for this show): Refuse participation. You have nothing to gain but your self-respect. Arlene Phillips's choreography might be excused on the grounds that those who execute it are supposed to be robots, but couldn't the robots have been more imaginatively programmed? Eltons script does run to a few good jokes, all of them crammed into one scene in the second act and entrusted to a pickled hippie, played with pleasing relish by Jack Langeduk. But even he is only there to fulfil the shows main purpose, which is to make a narcissistic generation feel nostalgically good about itself.

We Will Rock You plays until May 27 at Toronto's Canon Theatre.

Call 416-872- 1212 for ticket information.

Illustration

Photo: We Will Rock You, a jukebox musical built around the songs of Queen, is playing in Toronto. ;

Word count: 998
